README.rst, before:

####
zksk
####

|build_status| |docs_status| |license| |arxiv|

.. |build_status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/spring-epfl/zksk.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/spring-epfl/zksk
   :alt: Build status

.. |docs_status| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/zksk/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://zksk.readthedocs.io/?badge=latest
   :alt: Documentation status

.. |license| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
   :alt: MIT License

.. |arxiv| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/cs.CR-arXiv%3A1911.02459-red
   :target: https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.02459
   :alt: Paper on arXiv

.. start-description-marker-do-not-remove

Zero-Knowledge Swiss Knife: Python library for prototyping composable zero-knowledge proofs.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let's say Peggy commits to a secret bit and wants to prove to Victor in zero knowledge that she
knows this bit—that is, without revealing it. In Camenisch-Stadler notation, we can write:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spring-epfl/zksk/docs-fixes/images/bit_proof_stmt.svg?sanitize=true
   :alt: PK{ (r): (C = rH) ∨ (C - G = rH) }

To implement this zero-knowledge proof, Peggy will run:

.. code-block:: python

    from zksk import Secret, DLRep
    from zksk import utils

    # Setup: Peggy and Victor agree on two group generators.
    G, H = utils.make_generators(num=2, seed=42)
    # Setup: generate a secret randomizer.
    r = Secret(utils.get_random_num(bits=128))

    # This is Peggy's secret bit.
    top_secret_bit = 1

    # A Pedersen commitment to the secret bit.
    commitment = top_secret_bit * G + r.value * H

    # Peggy's definition of the proof statement, and proof generation.
    stmt = DLRep(commitment, r * H, simulated=True) | DLRep(commitment - G, r * H)
    zk_proof = stmt.prove()


Victor will receive ``commitment`` and ``zk_proof`` from Peggy, and run this to verify the
proof:

.. code-block:: python

    from zksk import Secret, DLRep

    # Setup: get the agreed group generators.
    G, H = utils.make_generators(num=2, seed=42)
    # Setup: define a randomizer with an unknown value.
    r = Secret()

    stmt = DLRep(commitment, r * H) | DLRep(commitment - G, r * H)
    assert stmt.verify(zk_proof)

Victor is now convinced that Peggy knows the committed bit.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. end-description-marker-do-not-remove

> **Warning.** Please don't use this software for anything mission-critical. It is designed for quick protyping of privacy-enhancing technologies, not production use.

Check out the `documentation <https://zksk.readthedocs.io/>`_.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

===============
Getting started
===============

.. start-getting-started-marker-do-not-remove

You can install zksk using pip:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install -e .

To run unit tests, first, install the dev version of the package:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install -e ".[dev]"

Second, run the tests with pytest:

.. code-block:: bash

   pytest

To build the the documentation pages, make sure you have installed the dev version of the package
(see above), and then run:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd docs/
    make html

.. end-getting-started-marker-do-not-remove

======
Citing
======

.. start-citing-do-not-remove

If you use zksk in your research, please cite like this:

.. code-block:: bibtex

    @inproceedings{LueksKFBT19,
      author    = {Wouter Lueks and
                   Bogdan Kulynych and
                   Jules Fasquelle and
                   Simon Le Bail{-}Collet and
                   Carmela Troncoso},
      title     = {zksk: {A} Library for Composable Zero-Knowledge Proofs},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of the 18th {ACM} Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic
                   Society ({WPES@CCS})},
      pages     = {50--54},
      year      = {2019},
    }

.. end-citing-do-not-remove

Commit message:

Clarify the discrete-log setting in README [CI skip]

README.rst, after:

####
zksk
####

|build_status| |docs_status| |license| |arxiv|

.. |build_status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/spring-epfl/zksk.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/spring-epfl/zksk
   :alt: Build status

.. |docs_status| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/zksk/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://zksk.readthedocs.io/?badge=latest
   :alt: Documentation status

.. |license| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg
   :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
   :alt: MIT License

.. |arxiv| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/cs.CR-arXiv%3A1911.02459-red
   :target: https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.02459
   :alt: Paper on arXiv

.. start-description-marker-do-not-remove

Zero-Knowledge Swiss Knife: Python library for prototyping composable zero-knowledge proofs in the
discrete-log setting.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let's say Peggy commits to a secret bit and wants to prove to Victor in zero knowledge that she
knows this bit—that is, without revealing it. In Camenisch-Stadler notation, we can write:

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/spring-epfl/zksk/docs-fixes/images/bit_proof_stmt.svg?sanitize=true
   :alt: PK{ (r): (C = rH) ∨ (C - G = rH) }

To implement this zero-knowledge proof, Peggy will run:

.. code-block:: python

    from zksk import Secret, DLRep
    from zksk import utils

    # Setup: Peggy and Victor agree on two group generators.
    G, H = utils.make_generators(num=2, seed=42)
    # Setup: generate a secret randomizer.
    r = Secret(utils.get_random_num(bits=128))

    # This is Peggy's secret bit.
    top_secret_bit = 1

    # A Pedersen commitment to the secret bit.
    commitment = top_secret_bit * G + r.value * H

    # Peggy's definition of the proof statement, and proof generation.
    stmt = DLRep(commitment, r * H, simulated=True) | DLRep(commitment - G, r * H)
    zk_proof = stmt.prove()


Victor will receive ``commitment`` and ``zk_proof`` from Peggy, and run this to verify the
proof:

.. code-block:: python

    from zksk import Secret, DLRep

    # Setup: get the agreed group generators.
    G, H = utils.make_generators(num=2, seed=42)
    # Setup: define a randomizer with an unknown value.
    r = Secret()

    stmt = DLRep(commitment, r * H) | DLRep(commitment - G, r * H)
    assert stmt.verify(zk_proof)

Victor is now convinced that Peggy knows the committed bit.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. end-description-marker-do-not-remove

> **Warning.** Please don't use this software for anything mission-critical. It is designed for quick protyping of privacy-enhancing technologies, not production use.

Check out the `documentation <https://zksk.readthedocs.io/>`_.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

===============
Getting started
===============

.. start-getting-started-marker-do-not-remove

You can install zksk using pip:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install -e .

To run unit tests, first, install the dev version of the package:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install -e ".[dev]"

Second, run the tests with pytest:

.. code-block:: bash

   pytest

To build the the documentation pages, make sure you have installed the dev version of the package
(see above), and then run:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd docs/
    make html

.. end-getting-started-marker-do-not-remove

======
Citing
======

.. start-citing-do-not-remove

If you use zksk in your research, please cite like this:

.. code-block:: bibtex

    @inproceedings{LueksKFBT19,
      author    = {Wouter Lueks and
                   Bogdan Kulynych and
                   Jules Fasquelle and
                   Simon Le Bail{-}Collet and
                   Carmela Troncoso},
      title     = {zksk: {A} Library for Composable Zero-Knowledge Proofs},
      booktitle = {Proceedings of the 18th {ACM} Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic
                   Society ({WPES@CCS})},
      pages     = {50--54},
      year      = {2019},
    }

.. end-citing-do-not-remove
